## Welcome to the OPEN-PROM Tutorial!

OPEN-PROM ("open PROMETHEUS") is an energy-economy model currently under development. The present version is based on the MENA-EDS ENERGY MODEL v4.0 (c) E3Modelling 2020.

Extensive documentation of the PROMETHEUS model on which both MENA-EDS and OPEN-PROM are based can be found here: https://e3modelling.com/modelling-tools/prometheus/.

OPEN-PROM is written in GAMS (*G*eneral *A*lgebraic *M*odelling *S*ystem https://gams.com/) and its main file is `main.gms`.



The contents of the tutorial are listed on the left (in the "Tutorials" folder).

Necessary Software:

- GAMS (required)
- R (required)
- Git (optional)
- GAMS Studio/VS Code (optional)


For Model Users:

- Install GAMS and R (if you haven't already) and add them to your PATH variable.
- Ensure that the reticulate library is installed in R.
Note: To run the model, you need input data, which are not distributed with the model code. If you don't have the data, please contact us at: info@e3modelling.com.


For Model Developers:
- Install GAMS and R (if you haven't already) and add them to your PATH variable.
- Proceed with Tutorial 00.
Regionalization of OPEN-PROM
The following section outlines the current regionalization of the OPEN-PROM model.

***Overview of the tutorials***

A quick overview of the Tutorials contents:

The first three tutorials are dedicated to installing all the software and libraries necessary for the proper functioning of the model.

- ***01_Git and VS Code Settings:***
A step-by-step guide to setting up Git and VS Code (useful tools for developing and running the model), as well as adding the necessary extensions to VS Code.

- ***02_Task Runner settings in VS code:***
A dedicated guide for installing the Task Runner extension in VS Code. The Task Runner is a custom button that runs the GAMS code of OPEN-PROM in different modes, described in this guide. It corresponds to the "Run (F9)" button in GAMS Studio.

 - ***03_Loading Input Data Files with MrPROM:***
A brief guide to loading real input data files into the OPEN-PROM model using the dedicated R tool, Mr PROM.

Tutorials for Setting Up and Running the Model:

- ***04_First OPEN‐PROM running:***
This guide describes how to execute OPEN-PROM for the first time using dummy data as inputs, generated by a dedicated script.

- ***05_Running OPEN‐PROM with real input data:***
A brief description of how to execute OPEN-PROM, including the order of script execution.

- ***06_Setting OPEN-PROM regionalization:***
A guide to the countries and regions mapping used in the model.

Tutorials for Debugging and Streamlining Workflow:

- ***07_GAMS error codes:***
Examples of GAMS errors, with a URL redirecting you to the official GAMS error codes documentation.

- ***08_Troubleshooting Git and Visual Studio Code for GitHub:***
Simple steps to troubleshoot and resolve common issues during the setup of Git and Visual Studio Code for GitHub.

- ***09_Creating FIXME Issues from Code Comments:***
A brief guide to automatically creating new GitHub issues by adding specially formatted comments in your code.

- ***10_Modular OPEN-PROM guide:***
A guide to run the model in its modular version by sector.